grading.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Grading
collection: main
---

## Course Grade

The course grade consists of the following components and percentages:

Homework: 35%

Class participation: 15%

Course project: 50%

## Homework grading

There will be 5 homeworks, each worth 7 points.
The homeworks will be assigned in the first part of the course.
To receive full credit, homework must be posted by midnight Pacific Time on the due date.
Unless otherwise stated otherwise, homework is due on Tuesdays at 11:59 PM.
Two points will be deducted from homework received up to a week after its due date.
No credit will be given for homework more than one week late (unless there is special permission
from the instructors).
The instructors will respond to the homework as a github issue.
You will have one week from the posting of the instructor's issue to revise your homework.

Homework should be submitted using github classroom.

1. Click the link for the homework on the syllabus page. This will create
a repository for you.

1. Clone the repository on your machine.

1. Do the homework on your machine.

1. ``git add`` new files that you create in your repo.

1. ``git commit`` and ``git push`` to submit your homework. You may do many pushes as long
as they are before the homework due date.

## Class Participation

Class participation will be graded based on project related presentations.

## Course Project

[Description of Class Project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14XfgSuko_hfYbNBq8agz31CxnmIJkw2Iz8yW0cs-mSY/edit?usp=sharing)

Projects will be graded based on:
(a) the poster presentation, (b) documentation
(especially function and design specifications), (c) the features implemented,
and (d) code quality.
(Details of the grading rubric can be found
in the Projects tab.)
Grades for the project will be assigned to the entire team, although
there will be adjustments
for significant discrepancies in
the relative contributions of team members.
The latter will be assessed by commit logs and by
a survey students will submit
at the end of the quarter.

Commit message:

Reference the syllabus for the due dates for homeworks.

grading.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Grading
collection: main
---

## Course Grade

The course grade consists of the following components and percentages:

Homework: 35%

Class participation: 15%

Course project: 50%

## Homework grading

There will be 5 homeworks, each worth 7 points.
The homeworks will be assigned in the first part of the course.
To receive full credit, homework must be posted by midnight Pacific Time on the due date.
The due date for homework is specified in the class syllabus.
Two points will be deducted from homework received up to a week after its due date.
No credit will be given for homework more than one week late (unless there is special permission
from the instructors).
The instructors will respond to the homework as a github issue.
You will have one week from the posting of the instructor's issue to revise your homework.

Homework should be submitted using github classroom.

1. Click the link for the homework on the syllabus page. This will create
a repository for you.

1. Clone the repository on your machine.

1. Do the homework on your machine.

1. ``git add`` new files that you create in your repo.

1. ``git commit`` and ``git push`` to submit your homework. You may do many pushes as long
as they are before the homework due date.

## Class Participation

Class participation will be graded based on project related presentations.

## Course Project

[Description of Class Project](https://docs.google.com/document/d/14XfgSuko_hfYbNBq8agz31CxnmIJkw2Iz8yW0cs-mSY/edit?usp=sharing)

Projects will be graded based on:
(a) the poster presentation, (b) documentation
(especially function and design specifications), (c) the features implemented,
and (d) code quality.
(Details of the grading rubric can be found
in the Projects tab.)
Grades for the project will be assigned to the entire team, although
there will be adjustments
for significant discrepancies in
the relative contributions of team members.
The latter will be assessed by commit logs and by
a survey students will submit
at the end of the quarter.
