hw1_example_submission.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Homework 1 Submission
---

# Homework 1 Submission

This guide will walk you through submitting homework 1 after you've finished developing your notebook. They assume you've a workspace directory setup with the following files:

````
> ls
homework1.ipynb
data/*
````

## 1: Clone Repo

Visit the github classroom to establish/access your personal homework repository: https://classroom.github.com/a/yiSZgFof 

From the repository page use the provided clone url to clone the remote repository into your workspace. For example:

````
> git clone https://github.com/UWSEDS-aut17/hw1-asford
> ls
data
homework1.ipynb
hw1-asford
````

## 2: Move homework into repository clone and commit

Move your homework submission into the repository folder and commit it to the repo.

````
> mv homework1.ipynb data hw1-asford
> cd hw1-asford
> ls
LICENSE
README.md
data
homework1.ipynb
> git status
On branch master
Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	data/
	homework1.ipynb

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
> git add .
> git commit
...
[master b4b3b65] Homework submission.
 2 files changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 data/1
 create mode 100644 homework1.ipynb
````

## 3: Push homework to remote

Finally, push your homework submission to github for submission:

````
> git status
On branch master
Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 1 commit.
  (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
nothing to commit, working tree clean
> git log --graph --oneline --decorate
* b4b3b65 (HEAD -> master) Homework submission.
* fb67da8 (origin/master, origin/HEAD) Update homework description for Autumn 2017.
* c55f61a added assingment text from google doc with updates for GitHub classroom
* 1e407c3 Initial commit
> git push origin
Counting objects: 4, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
Writing objects: 100% (4/4), 422 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 4 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
To https://github.com/UWSEDS-aut17/hw1-asford
   fb67da8..b4b3b65  master -> master
> git log --graph --oneline --decorate
* b4b3b65 (HEAD -> master, origin/master, origin/HEAD) Homework submission.
* fb67da8 Update homework description for Autumn 2017.
* c55f61a added assingment text from google doc with updates for GitHub classroom
* 1e407c3 Initial commit
````

Commit message:

Make hw1_example_submission year-agnostic.
Update h1_example_submission to remove specific username and year references.

hw1_example_submission.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Homework 1 Submission
---

# Homework 1 Submission

This guide will walk you through submitting homework 1 after you've finished developing your notebook. It assumes you've a workspace setup with the following files:

````
> ls
homework1.ipynb
data/*
````

## 1: Clone Repo

Visit github classroom to establish & access your personal homework repository via the submission link on the syllabus page.

From your github repository page use the provided clone url to clone the remote repository into your workspace. For example:

````
> git clone https://github.com/UWSEDS/hw1-username
> ls
data
homework1.ipynb
hw1-username
````

## 2: Move homework into repository clone and commit

Move your homework submission into the repository folder and commit it to the repo.

````
> mv homework1.ipynb data hw1-username
> cd hw1-username
> ls
LICENSE
README.md
data
homework1.ipynb
> git status
On branch master
Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)

	data/
	homework1.ipynb

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
> git add .
> git commit
...
[master b4b3b65] Homework submission.
 2 files changed, 0 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 100644 data/1
 create mode 100644 homework1.ipynb
````

## 3: Push homework to remote

Finally, push your homework submission to github for submission:

````
> git status
On branch master
Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 1 commit.
  (use "git push" to publish your local commits)
nothing to commit, working tree clean
> git log --graph --oneline --decorate
* b4b3b65 (HEAD -> master) Homework submission.
* fb67da8 (origin/master, origin/HEAD) Update homework description for Autumn 2017.
* c55f61a added assingment text from google doc with updates for GitHub classroom
* 1e407c3 Initial commit
> git push origin
Counting objects: 4, done.
Delta compression using up to 8 threads.
Compressing objects: 100% (2/2), done.
Writing objects: 100% (4/4), 422 bytes | 0 bytes/s, done.
Total 4 (delta 0), reused 0 (delta 0)
To https://github.com/UWSEDS/hw1-username
   fb67da8..b4b3b65  master -> master
> git log --graph --oneline --decorate
* b4b3b65 (HEAD -> master, origin/master, origin/HEAD) Homework submission.
* fb67da8 Update homework description for Autumn 2017.
* c55f61a added assingment text from google doc with updates for GitHub classroom
* 1e407c3 Initial commit
````
