software.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Software
collection: main
---

The course makes use of a number of software packages that students
will install on their computers.
The following software are available for Windows, Mac, and Linux.

**You need to make sure that all of this software is on your computer before the first day of class.**

## git and github
git is a system used for version control and collaboration.
**You should have a github account and ensure that
git is installed on your computer.**

## Bash shell and git software version control
The bash shell provides a programming environment that
is often used to manipulate files, install programs, and
basic data analysis.
The git version control system (along with the github website)
are widely used for sharing codes and collaborative development
of software.
Bash and git are part of Linux and Mac OSX.
Windows users should install gitbash. (See https://git-scm.com/download/win.)
Look [here](https://github.com/UWSEDS/uwseds.github.io/blob/master/software_windows_texteditor.md)
for more
details on the use of an editor with Windows for git.

### Mac OSX note: Some students reported an error with ``git``:
```
xcode-select: note: no developer tools were found at '/Applications/Xcode.app', requesting install. Choose an option in the dialog to download the command line developer tools.
```
To fix this, do the following:

* Start a new Terminal
* Run the following command: ``xcode-select --install``
* Click ``Install``
* Click ``Agree`` to agree to the terms
For more information see this [link](http://mac-how-to.wonderhowto.com/how-to/install-command-line-developer-tools-without-xcode-0168115/)

### Windows user note:
Windows users should install the Software Carpentry recommended software:
Please follow these instructions on YouTube: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=339AEqk9c-8](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=339AEqk9c-8).
Make sure you install gitbash _and_ the text editor (SWCarpentryInstaller).
Links to the installers for Windows:
* GitBASH: [https://git-for-windows.github.io](https://git-for-windows.github.io)
* Software Carpentry Installer: [https://github.com/swcarpentry/windows-installer/releases/](https://github.com/swcarpentry/windows-installer/releases/)


## Get the class notes
Use git to clone the repo for the lectures. (We're assuming that you git installed.)

- git clone https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes.git

## DB Browser (or other SQL interactive environments)
You will need an environment in which you can run SQL queries.
We recommended [DB Browser for sqlite](http://sqlitebrowser.org).

## Python
We recommend that you use the most recent version of Python 3.  Earlier
versions of Python 3 work as well.  There are some differences between Python 2
and Python 3, and many systems only include Python 2.7 as a standard
installation.  A python installation for this course will be managed by the
[conda](https://conda.io/docs/) package management system, described below.

## sqlite3
``sqlite3`` provides a simple environment for access to SQL databases on your computer.
It also provides a python API.
``sqlite3`` is packaged with MacOS and other systems.
You can check if ``sqlite3`` is installed on your system by typing ``sqlite3`` at the command line of a terminal session.

## Conda
Conda is a system for installing and otherwise managing python and other
software packages.  We recommend students use miniconda.  See
[http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html](http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html)
for instructions for downloading and installing miniconda for your OS, selecting
the Python 3 series installer.

Below are detailed instructions after you have installed miniconda:

1. Update conda's listing of packages for your system:
- $conda update conda
3. Install ipython notebook and its requirements:
- $ conda install notebook
4. Navigate to the directory containing the course material. For example:
- $ cd ~/LectureNotes/02-Python-and-Data
5. Type jupyter notebook in the terminal to start the notebook:
- $ jupyter notebook

If everything has worked correctly, it should automatically open the notebook
server in your default browser. 

## Text editor
Students will select a text editor of their choice, such as
Notebook (Windows), vim (all platforms), and sublime (all platforms).
A text editor is different from word processing programs,
like MS Word, in that text editors often recognize
program syntax and do no formatting.



If you don't already have a favorite text editor, we recommend installing either [atom](http://atom.io/) or [Sublime](http://www.sublimetext.com/), which are both available for all platforms.

Commit message:

Added install instructions for windows 10 subsystem for linux

software.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Software
collection: main
---

The course makes use of a number of software packages that students
will install on their computers.
The following software are available for Windows, Mac, and Linux.

**You need to make sure that all of this software is on your computer before the first day of class.**

## git and github
git is a system used for version control and collaboration.
**You should have a github account and ensure that
git is installed on your computer.**

## Bash shell and git software version control
The bash shell provides a programming environment that
is often used to manipulate files, install programs, and
basic data analysis.
The git version control system (along with the github website)
are widely used for sharing codes and collaborative development
of software.
Bash and git are part of Linux and Mac OSX.
**For Windows users, there are several pathes...** The first set of instructions below (using gitbash) has been the standard for the last several years.  However, recent versions of Windows 10 support with Windows Subsystem for Linux to run ubuntu nativelly within Windows 10.  This provides more seemless integration and does so with fewer headaches.  Instructions are here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10 .  You can use the Windows Store to install Ubuntu.

(Older method):
Windows users should install gitbash. (See https://git-scm.com/download/win.)
Look [here](https://github.com/UWSEDS/uwseds.github.io/blob/master/software_windows_texteditor.md)
for more
details on the use of an editor with Windows for git.

### Mac OSX note: Some students reported an error with ``git``:
```
xcode-select: note: no developer tools were found at '/Applications/Xcode.app', requesting install. Choose an option in the dialog to download the command line developer tools.
```
To fix this, do the following:

* Start a new Terminal
* Run the following command: ``xcode-select --install``
* Click ``Install``
* Click ``Agree`` to agree to the terms
For more information see this [link](http://mac-how-to.wonderhowto.com/how-to/install-command-line-developer-tools-without-xcode-0168115/)

### Windows user note:
Windows users should install the Software Carpentry recommended software:
Please follow these instructions on YouTube: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=339AEqk9c-8](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=339AEqk9c-8).
Make sure you install gitbash _and_ the text editor (SWCarpentryInstaller).
Links to the installers for Windows:
* GitBASH: [https://git-for-windows.github.io](https://git-for-windows.github.io)
* Software Carpentry Installer: [https://github.com/swcarpentry/windows-installer/releases/](https://github.com/swcarpentry/windows-installer/releases/)


## Get the class notes
Use git to clone the repo for the lectures. (We're assuming that you git installed.)

- git clone https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes.git

## DB Browser (or other SQL interactive environments)
You will need an environment in which you can run SQL queries.
We recommended [DB Browser for sqlite](http://sqlitebrowser.org).

## Python
We recommend that you use the most recent version of Python 3.  Earlier
versions of Python 3 work as well.  There are some differences between Python 2
and Python 3, and many systems only include Python 2.7 as a standard
installation.  A python installation for this course will be managed by the
[conda](https://conda.io/docs/) package management system, described below.

## sqlite3
``sqlite3`` provides a simple environment for access to SQL databases on your computer.
It also provides a python API.
``sqlite3`` is packaged with MacOS and other systems.
You can check if ``sqlite3`` is installed on your system by typing ``sqlite3`` at the command line of a terminal session.

## Conda
Conda is a system for installing and otherwise managing python and other
software packages.  We recommend students use miniconda.  See
[http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html](http://conda.pydata.org/miniconda.html)
for instructions for downloading and installing miniconda for your OS, selecting
the Python 3 series installer.

Below are detailed instructions after you have installed miniconda:

1. Update conda's listing of packages for your system:
- $conda update conda
3. Install ipython notebook and its requirements:
- $ conda install notebook
4. Navigate to the directory containing the course material. For example:
- $ cd ~/LectureNotes/02-Python-and-Data
5. Type jupyter notebook in the terminal to start the notebook:
- $ jupyter notebook

If everything has worked correctly, it should automatically open the notebook
server in your default browser. 

## Text editor
Students will select a text editor of their choice, such as
Notebook (Windows), vim (all platforms), and sublime (all platforms).
A text editor is different from word processing programs,
like MS Word, in that text editors often recognize
program syntax and do no formatting.



If you don't already have a favorite text editor, we recommend installing either [atom](http://atom.io/) or [Sublime](http://www.sublimetext.com/), which are both available for all platforms.
