syllabus.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
collection: main
---

| Week          | Tuesday Topic       | Thursday Topic     | References         | Assignment   |
|:--------------|:--------------------|:-------------------|:-------------------|:-------------|
|Sep 24 | NO CLASS | [Course introduction, command line, & data essentials](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/01_Course_Introduction_Command_Line_Data_Essentials/01_Course_Introduction_Command_Line_Data_Essentials.pptx?raw=true) (Dave) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=a8b5dda0-778e-48d8-9f1d-a9680159ac29) | [learning linux commands](http://linuxcommand.org/lc3_learning_the_shell.php); [A Whirlwind Tour of Python](https://jakevdp.github.io/WhirlwindTourOfPython/) | |
|Oct 01  | Procedural python ([notebooks](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/tree/master/02_Procedural_Python) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=0e0e7114-c781-42cd-a0ea-a96d015b0504)) (Joe) | Version control 1 ([pdf](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/raw/master/03_Version_Control_1/03_Version_Control_1.pdf)); How to submit homework. ([Practice homework submission](https://classroom.github.com/a/_tncTrOr), [diagram](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/raw/master/03_Version_Control_1/Version_Control_Diagram_1.pdf)) (Bernease) <br><br> NOTE: Screen capture failed from lecture. Consult [this](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/) and [this](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials) for materials until re-recorded. | |
|Oct 08  | Project overview and data sources; Data analysis with python ([lecture-materials](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/tree/master/04_ProjectOverview_AnalysisWorkflow) )(Joe)      | Structuring code with functions (Colin)|| [Homework 1](https://classroom.github.com/a/cgcLxAfZ) Due Oct 11. |
|Oct 15  | Working in teams; Team formation; [Exceptions](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/06_Projects_Exceptions_Testing/Exceptions.ipynb) & [debugging](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/06_Projects_Exceptions_Testing/Debugging.ipynb) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=b25ef301-17ec-4510-b5e9-a97b015b6c20) (Bernease)     | [Jupyter notebooks in depth](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/07-Jupyter-Notebook-In-Depth/Jupyter%20Notebook%20In%20Depth.ipynb) ([Lorenz System](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/07-Jupyter-Notebook-In-Depth/LorenzSystem.ipynb), [Widgets Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/07-Jupyter-Notebook-In-Depth/WidgetsDemo.ipynb)) (Bernease and Dave) | [Projects](http://uwseds.github.io/projects.html) | [Homework 2 due 10/18.](https://classroom.github.com/a/9xEwb4S7) |
|Oct 22  | [Programming style, documentation, linting](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/08-Documentation-and-Style/Documentation_and_Style.pptx?raw=true) ([video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=0e19cbee-d93f-42de-89b7-a982015bb3c3)) (Dave)                              | Technology Reviews; Writing tests ([Notes](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/tree/master/09_UnitTests) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=95bdcb97-308d-42dc-a2b7-a984015b4819)) (Joe) | |[Homework 3 due 10/25.](https://classroom.github.com/a/Gs1h4jPw)|
|Oct 29  | [Software Design](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/10_SoftwareDesign/Software-Design.pdf) ([video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=e2e194ca-dc87-46b5-9911-a989015a80ee)) ; Standup  (Joe)                                          | Standups; [Version control 2a](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/11_Version_Control_2/11_Version_Control_2.pdf) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=7d3aa3d0-e125-41ea-85c9-a98b015bb749) (Bernease) | | [Homework 4 due 11/1](https://classroom.github.com/a/h8NxDdUg) |
|Nov 05  | [Version control 2b](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/raw/master/11b_Version_Control_3/11b_Version_Control_3.pdf) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=9cf3b7b3-42f1-49dc-a08b-a990016b65f1) (Bernease)                                                      | Technology Reviews | |[Homework 5 due 11/8](https://github.com/UWSEDS-Au18/HW5) |
|Nov 12  | Technology Reviews                                                   | [Package structure](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/12_Package_Structure/Project-Structure-and-Packages.pptx?raw=true) (Dave) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=37f063b1-0ead-407d-a0f1-a999016cd60e) | Examples: [simple](https://github.com/dacb/codebase), [complex](https://github.com/uwescience/shablona), [conda](https://github.com/ECSHackWeek/ECSOpenData/blob/master/.travis.yml) |Homework: Create team repo and project design documents|
|Nov 19  | Standups; ML Overview (Bernease)                                        | NO CLASS (Thanksgiving)
|Nov 26  | Standups; Text analytics (Colin)                                        | Standups; TBD | |
|Dec 03  | Project presentation summaries                                          | Project presentation summaries  ||
|Dec 11  | 4pm - Final Presentation in Data Science Studio | ||
{: rules="groups"}

Commit message:

Add ML lecture and guest lecture info to syllabus

syllabus.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Syllabus
collection: main
---

| Week          | Tuesday Topic       | Thursday Topic     | References         | Assignment   |
|:--------------|:--------------------|:-------------------|:-------------------|:-------------|
|Sep 24 | NO CLASS | [Course introduction, command line, & data essentials](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/01_Course_Introduction_Command_Line_Data_Essentials/01_Course_Introduction_Command_Line_Data_Essentials.pptx?raw=true) (Dave) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=a8b5dda0-778e-48d8-9f1d-a9680159ac29) | [learning linux commands](http://linuxcommand.org/lc3_learning_the_shell.php); [A Whirlwind Tour of Python](https://jakevdp.github.io/WhirlwindTourOfPython/) | |
|Oct 01  | Procedural python ([notebooks](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/tree/master/02_Procedural_Python) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=0e0e7114-c781-42cd-a0ea-a96d015b0504)) (Joe) | Version control 1 ([pdf](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/raw/master/03_Version_Control_1/03_Version_Control_1.pdf)); How to submit homework. ([Practice homework submission](https://classroom.github.com/a/_tncTrOr), [diagram](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/raw/master/03_Version_Control_1/Version_Control_Diagram_1.pdf)) (Bernease) <br><br> NOTE: Screen capture failed from lecture. Consult [this](https://swcarpentry.github.io/git-novice/) and [this](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials) for materials until re-recorded. | |
|Oct 08  | Project overview and data sources; Data analysis with python ([lecture-materials](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/tree/master/04_ProjectOverview_AnalysisWorkflow) )(Joe)      | Structuring code with functions (Colin)|| [Homework 1](https://classroom.github.com/a/cgcLxAfZ) Due Oct 11. |
|Oct 15  | Working in teams; Team formation; [Exceptions](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/06_Projects_Exceptions_Testing/Exceptions.ipynb) & [debugging](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/06_Projects_Exceptions_Testing/Debugging.ipynb) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=b25ef301-17ec-4510-b5e9-a97b015b6c20) (Bernease)     | [Jupyter notebooks in depth](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/07-Jupyter-Notebook-In-Depth/Jupyter%20Notebook%20In%20Depth.ipynb) ([Lorenz System](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/07-Jupyter-Notebook-In-Depth/LorenzSystem.ipynb), [Widgets Demo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/07-Jupyter-Notebook-In-Depth/WidgetsDemo.ipynb)) (Bernease and Dave) | [Projects](http://uwseds.github.io/projects.html) | [Homework 2 due 10/18.](https://classroom.github.com/a/9xEwb4S7) |
|Oct 22  | [Programming style, documentation, linting](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/08-Documentation-and-Style/Documentation_and_Style.pptx?raw=true) ([video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=0e19cbee-d93f-42de-89b7-a982015bb3c3)) (Dave)                              | Technology Reviews; Writing tests ([Notes](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/tree/master/09_UnitTests) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=95bdcb97-308d-42dc-a2b7-a984015b4819)) (Joe) | |[Homework 3 due 10/25.](https://classroom.github.com/a/Gs1h4jPw)|
|Oct 29  | [Software Design](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/10_SoftwareDesign/Software-Design.pdf) ([video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=e2e194ca-dc87-46b5-9911-a989015a80ee)) ; Standup  (Joe)                                          | Standups; [Version control 2a](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/11_Version_Control_2/11_Version_Control_2.pdf) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=7d3aa3d0-e125-41ea-85c9-a98b015bb749) (Bernease) | | [Homework 4 due 11/1](https://classroom.github.com/a/h8NxDdUg) |
|Nov 05  | [Version control 2b](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/raw/master/11b_Version_Control_3/11b_Version_Control_3.pdf) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=9cf3b7b3-42f1-49dc-a08b-a990016b65f1) (Bernease)                                                      | Technology Reviews | |[Homework 5 due 11/8](https://github.com/UWSEDS-Au18/HW5) |
|Nov 12  | Technology Reviews                                                   | [Package structure](https://github.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/blob/master/12_Package_Structure/Project-Structure-and-Packages.pptx?raw=true) (Dave) [video](https://uw.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=37f063b1-0ead-407d-a0f1-a999016cd60e) | Examples: [simple](https://github.com/dacb/codebase), [complex](https://github.com/uwescience/shablona), [conda](https://github.com/ECSHackWeek/ECSOpenData/blob/master/.travis.yml) |Homework: Create team repo and project design documents|
|Nov 19  | Standups; [ML Overview](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UWSEDS/LectureNotes/master/01_Course_Introduction_Command_Line_Data_Essentials/download_pronto.bash) (Bernease) <br> Panopto did not work for me again. Check out the slides or Colin's lecture next week for review of supervised and unsupervised ML. | NO CLASS (Thanksgiving)
|Nov 26  | Standups; Text analytics (Colin)                                        | Standups; Guest Lecture by Valentina Staneva -- topic TBD, either SQL, Dask, or Tensor Decomposition | |
|Dec 03  | Project presentation summaries                                          | Project presentation summaries  ||
|Dec 11  | 4pm - Final Presentation in Data Science Studio | ||
{: rules="groups"}
